.\" Manpage for odrecintegrity
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH odrecintegrity 1 "31 July 2015" "2.0.5" "odrecintegrity man page"

.SH NAME
odrecintegrity \- This tool verifies if an existing recording file contains valid container data.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odrecintegrity --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
odrecintegrity belongs to OpenDaVINCI and is a tool to verify the integrity of a
recording file containing dumps from an OpenDaVINCI container conference session.

The following parameter needs to be present in the configuration file supplied by
odsupercomponent(1) pointing to a recording file:

.RS
.B recintegrity.input = file://myRecording.rec # File to be verified.
.RE

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run odrecintegrity.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule odrecintegrity to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, odrecintegrity needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command verifies the content for the file specified in the configuration file
using a frequency of 10 Hz.

.B odrecintegrity --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
odplayer(1), odrecorder(1), odrecintegrity(1), odrecode(1), odredirector(1), odsplit(1), odspy(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

