.\" Manpage for canproxy
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH canproxy 1 "05 September 2015" "2.0.13" "canproxy man page"

.SH NAME
canproxy \- This tool wraps a CAN interface to map data into a generic data representation.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B canproxy --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
canproxy is a tool to wrap data received from a CAN interface into a generic data
representation to be used with OpenDaVINCI.

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run canproxy.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule canproxy to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, canproxy needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command runs the program at 10 Hz.

.B canproxy --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
odsupercomponent(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

