.\" Manpage for odsplit
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH odsplit 1 "19 January 2017" "4.6.1" "odsplit man page"

.SH NAME
odsplit \- This tool extracts all containers within a specified range from a recording file.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odsplit --source=<RECORDING FILE> --range=<START>-<END> --memorysegmentsize=<SIZE>



.SH DESCRIPTION
odsplit belongs to OpenDaVINCI and is a tool to extract a range of containers from
a recording file containing dumps from an OpenDaVINCI container conference session.

The resulting file created by this tool will be named "<RECORDING FILE>_<START>-<END>.rec".

The parameter "memorysegmentsize" defines the size of buffer segment that is used
to hold data from captured images temporarily; typical values are 307200 bytes
corresponding to a VGA gray-scale image. The tool will allocate three segments
in total during the extraction process.




.SH OPTIONS
.B --memorysegmentsize=<SIZE>
.RS
This parameter defines the size of buffer segment in bytes that is used to hold data
from captured images temporarily; typical values are 307200 bytes corresponding to a
VGA gray-scale image. The tool will allocate three segments in total during the
extraction process.

If this parameter is omitted or the specified value is too small, 307200 bytes are used.
.RE


.B --range=<START>-<END>
.RS
This parameter specifies the range of containers to be extracted. The containers
within the range [START,END] will be extracted.

If the specified recording file contains less containers than specified in <START>,
no containers are extracted.

If the specified recording file contains less containers than specified in <END>,
only all containers beginning from <START> until EOF of <RECORDING FILE> are
extracted.
.RE


.B --source=<RECORDING FILE>
.RS
This parameter specifies the filename to be used for extracting the data.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command extracts a range of containers from a recording file.

.B odsplit --source=myRecording --range=10-55



.SH SEE ALSO
odfilter(1), odplayer(1), odplayerh264(1), odrecorder(1), odrecorderh264(1), odrecinspect(1), odredirector(1), odsplit(1), odspy(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

