.\" Manpage for canbridge
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH canbridge 1 "20 September 2015" "2.0.18" "canbridge man page"

.SH NAME
canbridge \- This tool bridges low-level CAN messages between two CAN device nodes and maps the generic CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B canbridge --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
canbridge is a tool to bridge low-level CAN messages between two
CAN device nodes. In addition, it maps low-level CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures
to be used with OpenDaVINCI. It combines the features from canproxy(1) and canmapper(1)
into one single tool.

The following parameters need to be present in the configuration file supplied by
odsupercomponent(1) to correctly configure canproxy:

.RS
.B canbridge.devicenodeA = /dev/pcan0

.B canbridge.devicenodeB = /dev/pcan1
.RE

The parameter 'canbridge.devicenodeA' defines, which first CAN device shall be used to read
and write the data.

The parameter 'canbridge.devicenodeB' defines, which second CAN device shall be used to read
and write the data.

canbridge will forward all low-level CAN message received from the first CAN device to the
second and vice versa.

canbridge will automatically create a recording from all data received from the device
nodes.

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run canbridge.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule canbridge to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, canbridge needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command runs the program at 10 Hz.

.B canbridge --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
canascreplay(1), canbridge(1), canmapper(1), canproxy(1), canproxymapper(1), odsupercomponent(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

