.\" Manpage for odrecode
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH odrecode 1 "31 July 2015" "2.0.5" "odrecode man page"

.SH NAME
odrecode \- This tool recodes an existing recording file.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odrecode --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
odrecode belongs to OpenDaVINCI and is a tool to recode a recording file
containing dumps from an OpenDaVINCI container conference session. It is
supposed to be used to recode old recordings files created with earlier
versions of OpenDaVINCI.

The following parameter needs to be present in the configuration file supplied by
odsupercomponent(1) defining the size of buffer segment that is used to
hold data from captured images temporarily; typical values are 921600 bytes
corresponding to a VGA full-color image. The tool will allocate three segments
in total during the extraction process.

.RS
.B global.buffer.memorySegmentSize = 1000000
.RE

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --destination=<RECORDING FILE>
.RS
This parameter specifies the filename to be used for storing the recoded data.
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run odrecode.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule odrecode to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, odrecode needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --source=<RECORDING FILE>
.RS
This parameter specifies the filename to be used for recoding the data.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command verifies the content for the file specified in the configuration file
using a frequency of 10 Hz.

.B odrecode --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
odplayer(1), odrecorder(1), odrecintegrity(1), odrecode(1), odredirector(1), odsplit(1), odspy(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

