.\" Manpage for canproxymapper
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH canproxymapper 1 "20 September 2015" "2.0.19" "canproxymapper man page"

.SH NAME
canproxymapper \- This tool maps a generic CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures and vice-versa.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B canproxymapper --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
canproxymapper is a tool to map low-level CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures
to be used with OpenDaVINCI. It combines the features from canproxy(1) and canmapper(1)
into one single tool.

The following parameters need to be present in the configuration file supplied by
odsupercomponent(1) to correctly configure canproxy:

.RS
.B canproxy.devicenode = /dev/pcan0
.RE

The parameter 'canproxy.devicenode' defines, which CAN device shall be used to read
and write the data.

canproxymapper will automatically create a recording from all data received from the device
node.

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run canproxymapper.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule canproxymapper to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, canproxymapper needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command runs the program at 10 Hz.

.B canproxymapper --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
canascreplay(1), canbridge(1), canmapper(1), canproxy(1), canproxymapper(1), odsupercomponent(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

