.\" Manpage for odmjpegstreamer
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH odmjpegstreamer 1 "25 July 2017" "4.15.2" "odmjpegstreamer man page"

.SH NAME
odmjpegstreamer \- This tool creates an MJPEG stream encapsulated as HTTP from a
given source of SharedImages created from a data source local to the computer
where this program is executed.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odmjpegstreamer --cid=<CID> --jpegquality=8 --bgr2rgb=1 [OPTIONS]


.SH DESCRIPTION
odmjpegstreamer belongs to OpenDaVINCI and is a tool that creates an
HTTP-encapsulated MJPEG stream from a data source local to the computer where
odmjpegstreamer is run (because it attaches to the shared memory segment that
holds the actual image).

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).


.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --bgr2rgb=<0,1>
.RS
odmjpegstreamer will convert the input image from BGR to RGB layout in case of
three channel input image.

If this parameter is omitted, the default quality level of 15 is used.
.RE


.B --jpegquality=<1..100>
.RS
odmjpegstreamer will compress data of type SharedImage using JPEG. This parameter
specifies the quality in the range [1,100].

If this parameter is omitted, the default quality level of 15 is used.
.RE


.B --sharedimagename=<Name>
.RS
odmjpegstreamer will use the data from the image provided using the given name
for streaming.

If this parameter is omitted, the default quality level of 15 is used.
.RE



.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule odmjpegstreamer to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, odmjpegstreamer needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command creates an HTTP-encapsulated MJPEG stream of quality 20
for the shared image with the name "WebCam":

.B odmjpegstreamer --cid=111 --jpegquality=20 --sharedimagename=WebCam


.SH SEE ALSO
odfilter(1), odlivefeed(1), odplayer(1), odplayerh264(1), odrecinspect(1), odrecorder(1), odrecorderh264(1), odredirector(1), odsplit(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

