.\" Manpage for canmapper
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH canmapper 1 "05 September 2015" "2.0.13" "canmapper man page"

.SH NAME
canmapper \- This tool maps generic CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures and vice-versa.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B canmapper --cid=<CID> [OPTIONS]



.SH DESCRIPTION
canmapper is a tool to map low-level CAN messages to high-level C++ data structures
to be used with OpenDaVINCI. It needs to be used with canproxy(1).

This tool can only be used within an existing OpenDaVINCI container conference session
created by odsupercomponent(1).



.SH OPTIONS
.B --cid=<CID>
.RS
This parameter specifies the conference identifier (CID) that is used to join a
running container conference session. The session itself needs to be created by
odsupercomponent(1).
.RE


.B --freq=<FREQ>
.RS
This parameter specifies the runtime frequency in Hz that is used to run canmapper.
If this parameter is omitted, a runtime frequency of 1 Hz is used.
.RE


.B --realtime=<0..49>
.RS
This parameter will schedule canmapper to use the SCHED_FIFO soft realtime
scheduler. The parameter specifies the scheduling priority.

Please note that this feature is only available on Linux-based systems having a
CONFIG_PREEMPT_RT kernel. In addition, canmapper needs to be executed with
superuser privileges.

This parameter has no effect if odsupercomponent(1) is started using the
parameter '--managed'.
.RE


.B --verbose=<0..10>
.RS
This parameter specifies the verbosity level that is used to print some information to stdlog.
.RE



.SH EXAMPLES
The following command runs the program at 10 Hz.

.B canmapper --cid=111 --freq=10



.SH SEE ALSO
canproxy(1), canproxymapper(1), odsupercomponent(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

