.\" Manpage for odfilter
.\" Author: Christian Berger <christian.berger@gu.se>.

.TH odfilter 1 "26 September 2017" "4.16.0" "odfilter man page"

.SH NAME
odfilter \- This tool filters a stream of containers as part of a pipe.



.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odfilter [--keep=<ID_1>] [--drop=<ID_1>,<ID_2>] [--downsample=<ID_1>:n,<ID_2>:m] [--replaceSampleTimeWithSentTimeIfGreaterThan=n]



.SH DESCRIPTION
odfilter belongs to OpenDaVINCI and is a tool to keep or drop a range of containers from
a stream of containers dumped from an OpenDaVINCI container conference session. This tool
expects a stream of containers from STDIN and dumps the results according to the
specified --keep or --drop parameter to STDOUT.

All container IDs > 0 specified as a comma-separated list to the parameter --keep will
be dumped to STDOUT; all non-matching containers will be discarded.

All container IDs > 0 specified as a comma-separated list to the parameter --drop will
not be dumped to STDOUT; all other containers will be dumped.

You cannot specify --keep and --drop at the same time.



.SH OPTIONS
.B --keep=<ID_1>,<ID_2>
.RS
This parameter specifies which containers to be kept for dumping to STDOUT. The specified
identifiers must be separated with commas and the identifiers must be greater than 0.
.RE


.B --drop=<ID_1>,<ID_2>
.RS
This parameter specifies which containers to be dropped from dumping to STDOUT. The specified
identifiers must be separated with commas and the identifiers must be greater than 0.
.RE

.B --downsample=<ID_1>:<n>,<ID_2>:<m>
.RS
This parameter specifies which containers shall be downsampled to every n'th occurrence
before dumping to STDOUT. The specified identifiers must be separated with commas, the
identifiers must be greater than 0, and followed by : with the specified number of
occurrence.

The specified IDs in --downsample automatically imply --keep for the same IDs.
.RE


.B --replaceSampleTimeWithSentTimeIfGreaterThan=n
.RS
This parameter replaces the sample time stamp of a container with the sent time stamp
if the absolute difference between a container's sample time stamp and sent time
stamp is exceeding the specified n microseconds.
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES
The following command only preserves containers with the identifiers 1, 2, or 78.

.B odfilter --keep=1,2,78 < myRecording.rec > myCleanedRecording.rec


The following command downsamples the occurrence of containers with the
identifier 19 to every 10th time before dumping to STDOUT.

.B odfilter --downsample=19:10 < myRecording.rec > myDownSampledRecording.rec


.SH SEE ALSO
odfilter(1), odlivefeed(1), odplayer(1), odplayerh264(1), odrecinspect(1), odrecorder(1), odrecorderh264(1), odredirector(1), odsplit(1)



.SH BUGS
No known bugs.



.SH AUTHOR
Christian Berger (christian.berger@gu.se)

